# flow-cytometry-tutorial

A brief fuide to analysing flow cytometry data in R

Author: Eddie Cano-Gamez (ecg@sanger.ac.uk)


This repository contains step-by-step tutorials to perform simple exploratory analyses of flow cytometry data (i.e. fcs files generate by any regular cytometer).
This analysis is based on the flowCore suit, a group of R packages designed and written by Florian Hahne et al. To find our more about flowCore, please refer to the original publication and documentation pages:

	https://bmcbioinformatics.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/1471-2105-10-106

	https://www.bioconductor.org/packages/3.7/bioc/vignettes/flowCore/inst/doc/HowTo-flowCore.pdf

This repository contains two directories:

## Rmd

This directory contains R markdown code, which can be read directly into RStudio. The following tutorials are included:

### 1. Introduction to R

A general introduction to programming in R, covering the main operations and data structures supported by the language.

### 2. Introduction to cytometry data in R

An introduction to the basic functionalities of the flowCore package. This tutorial covers the intsallation of the flowCore suite, as well as reading and writing fcs files, the structure of flowCore objects, visualisation of flow cytometry data as scatter plots, density plots and histograms, data transformations and gating operations.

### 3. Using flowsets

An exaplanation of how to work with multiple fcs files at once. This includes a description of flowSet objects, as well as a step-by-step guide for analysing and transforming data from multiple fcs files in a single command using loops and 'apply' operators. Moreover, this tutorial also introduces techniques for regresing technical variability between flow cytometry batches.

### 4. Clustering and automatic gating

This tutorial focuses on clustering algorithms which can be applied to 'automatically' add custom gates to cytometry data sets without the need of a user specifying hard thresholds.


## html

This directory contains the output generated by running the files in the Rmd directory, including graphs and visualisations. 
